#summary How to install IvySvn.
#labels Phase-Deploy
= Installing !IvySvn from a binary release=

The following steps describe how to install !IvySvn after you have downloaded and unpacked the latest binary release.

  # Copy all the third party libraries (Ivy, Trilead and SVNKit) from the `lib` folder to `ANT_HOME/lib/` or to somewhere on your CLASSPATH. If you are upgrading from a previous version of IvySvn please remove any older versions of these libraries. 
  # Copy `ivysvnresolver.jar` into `ANT_HOME/lib/` or make sure it is on your CLASSPATH.
  # Create a standard `ivy.xml` file for your project declaring your dependencies, publications etc.
  # Create an `ivysettings.xml` file containing a "svn" resolver element and set various properties on it as described in [Configuration].

If you are upgrading from !IvySvn 1.4 or below you will also need to: 
  # Modify `ivysettings.xml` - many attribute names now contain mixed case (e.g. "keyfile" is now "keyFile") and some attribute names have changed (e.g. "port" is now "sshPort"). For more information refer to [Configuration].
  # If you previously used the attribute "repositoryPath" on the "svn" element in ivysettings.xml, remove it as it is no longer required.
  # Remove previous Ivy jar files (e.g. 'ivy-2.0.0-beta2.jar') from `ANT_HOME/lib/`. All future versions of !IvySvn will name this jar `ivy.jar` so future upgrades can just replace this file instead of having to remove older versions.

If you are upgrading from !IvySvn 1.3 or below you will also need to: 
  # Remove the contents of your local ivy2 cache (this is located in `~/.ivy2` on Linux) - remove the folder and all its contents).
  # Remove `ANT_HOME/lib/ganymed.jar` and previous versions of Ivy jar files from `ANT_HOME/lib/`.

----

= Installing !IvySvn from a source release =

  # Copy `ivysettings.xml.example` to `ivysettings.xml` and modify it to suit your setup.
  # Copy `build.properties.example` to `build.properties` and set the values according to your setup.
  # Run 
{{{
ant -Dskip.retrieve=true -Dversion=0 install
}}} 
which will compile the Java source code, build `ivysvnresolver.jar` into `build/dist` and then copy this, `ivysettings.xml`, `ivy-common-targets.xml` and the required 3rd party libraries to your `ANT_HOME/lib` folder.

Testing that it works:

  # Edit `ivy.xml` so that it contains dependencies to artifacts in your repository.
  # Run the following command and the dependent files should be downloaded to the `lib` folder.
{{{
ant retrieve
}}}
  # Make sure the "version" property is set and run 
{{{
ant publish
}}} 
and the current version of `ivysvnresolver.jar` 
should be published to your repository. NOTE: Every time you do a publish you will need to use a different 
version number (or set the property "publish.overwrite" to true).