#summary Known issues for the latest release.

= Known Issues for !IvySvn 2.0.0-beta4 =

== Binary version not compiled for Java 5 ==
The classes in the binary distribution were compiled on a Java 6 machine without setting the compiler flags to 1.5. Running the binary version on a Java 5 JVM will probably not work. Workaround for this issue is to download the source release and compile it yourself using a Java 5 JDK (the source *is* Java 5 compatible) or build from the trunk where this issue has been fixed.

== Setting binaryDiffFolderName ==
The documentation states that to set the name of the folder to use for binary diffs, the attribute "binaryDiffFolderName" needs to be set. There is a bug that causes this not to work, instead one gets the error message:

no set method found for binaryDiffFolderName on class fm.last.ivy.plugins.svnresolver.SvnResolver

This issue is resolved in the trunk and will be in the next release. As a temporary workaround you can instead set the attribute "binaryDiffFoldername" (note the lower case "n" in "name"), but note that you will need to change this back again for future releases.

== Publishing over !WebDav ==

Publishing to a Subversion repository over !WebDav using http(s):// where the repository root is more than one folder deep can lead to issues where !IvySvn publishes artifacts to unexpected folder locations. There are a few possible workarounds for this issue:

  * If you are not using the binaryDiff feature, try enabling this.
  * If you are using the binaryDiff feature, try disabling it.
  * Use a repository root that is only one folder deep.
  * Switch to an alternative method off repository access (e.g svn:// or svn+ssh://)